DEPQ (#5467)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/gold/ys-DEPQ.mdx

---
id: ys-DEPQ
source: YS
title: Double-Ended Priority Queue
author: David Zhou
---

## Explanation

> We need to be able to quickly add elements to a set of numbers as well as accessing and removing the smallest and largest ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to be able to quickly add elements to a set of numbers, as well as access and remove the smallest and largest ones.
```

Reviewer: just a grammar fix but everything else looks good

---
id: ys-DEPQ
source: YS
title: Double-Ended Priority Queue
author: David Zhou
---

## Explanation

For C++, we use a ```std::multiset``` to quickly access and remove the smallest and largest elements.

For Java, we use a ```TreeMap``` to quickly access values and keep track of counts for removals.

> For Python, we use a ```min_heap```, ```max_heap```, and a counts ```dictionary```. The ```min_heap``` and ```max_heap``` are for access, while the counts ```dictionary``` determines removal.

Reviewer 2: why 3 backticks
